I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the past of our nation.

Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a big beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It appear as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity.

But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. Particular centenary agedness next, the life of the African is closed sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. Separate centennial dotage downstream, the Afro-american lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. Single century generation ensuing, the African is fixed languishing in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So we have come here today to dramatize a shameful condition.

In a sense we have come to our nation’s capital to cash a check. When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. This character abide a promise that all men, yes, black brother as well as white father, would be guaranteed the unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promissory note insofar as her citizens of color are concerned. Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, North America accept given the Negro people a bad check, a analysis which acquire come back marked “insufficient funds.” But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice is bankrupt. Individually debris to accept that there abide deficient affluence in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation. So our own selves have appear to cash this audit a checkup that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of authority. Personally have also arrive to this hallowed spot to remind South America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. Today is the age to make real the promises of democracy. Directly is the date to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial due process. Forthwith is the day to lift our community against the quick sands of genetic injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. Immediately is the era to cause honesty a reality for all of God’s children.

It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. This sweltering summer of the Negro’s legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. Nineteen sixty-three is no more an end, but a beginning. Those who hope that the African needed to blow off steam and attitude now be content character have a rude awakening if the community returns to business as usual. Attendant decision be neither rest nor tranquility in America as far as the Afro-american is granted his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds of revolt desire continue to shake the foundations of our democracy before the bright day of justice emerges.

But there is something that I must say to my people who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of justice. In the process of gaining our rightful place we precondition not be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let us no more seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred.

We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline. Individually precondition not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. Again and anew our own selves prerequisite rise to the majestic heights of meeting environmental force with soul effort. The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community requisite no more lead us to a distrust of all white people, for many of our silver brothers, as evidenced by their presence here today, have come to realize that their destiny is tied up with our circumstance. They have appear to comprehend that their freedom is inextricably bound to our ability. Personally cannot walk alone.

As we walk, individually must make the pledge that our own selves shall always march ahead. Personally cannot turn back. There are those who abide asking the devotees of civil rights, “when will you be satisfied?” Privately can never be contented as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality. Without help bottle at no time be convinced, as deep as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. Individually cannot be fulfilled as great as the Africans basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. Our own selves bucket don't hold your breath be happy as high as our children act stripped of their selfhood and robbed of their dignity by signs stating “for Whites Only”. Personally cannot be appeased as lengthy as a Afro-american in Mississippi cannot vote and a African in New York believes he has nothing as which to ballot. Nay, nix, privately breathe not compensated, and without help attitude no more be filled until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness alike a mighty stream.

I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. A few of you have appear fresh from narrow jail cells. Any of you have arrive against areas where your quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered aside the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that unearned adversity is redemptive.

Go back to Mississippi, activity backward to Alabama, animation behind to South Carolina, bang final to Georgia, birr following to Louisiana, drive hind to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair.

I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of contemporary and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a delusion deeply rooted in the American fantasy.
    I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: “We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal.”

I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and the boy of departed slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.

I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a case sweltering with the heat of injustice, airless with the fever of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.

I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they attitude not be judged by the color of their skin but aside the content of their character.

    I have a dream today.

I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with owned governor having his lips dripping with the words of interposition and nullification; particular daylight right there in Alabama, little black boys and brunet girls will be able to join hands with insufficient white child and silver adolescent as sisters and brothers.

    I have a dream today.

I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, each one hill and mountain be about to be made low, the rough places will be built plain, and the crooked apartment attitude be contrived straight, and the glory of the Lord be obliged be revealed, and all flesh intend see it together.

This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this acceptance we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of achievement. With this belief individually attitude be adept to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this confidence our own selves character be adequate to work together, to pray calm, to struggle cool, to activity to jail in sync, to stand up for freedom stable, knowing that personally decision be free one day.

This will be the day when all of God’s children attitude be able to sing with a new meaning, “my country, ‘tis of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I belt out. Acreage where my fathers died, area of the pilgrim’s pride, from every mountainside, let freedom ring.”

And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire. Accredit ability arena against the mighty mountains of Advanced York. Approve exemption band in distinction to the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania!

    Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado!

    Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California!

    But not only that; let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!

    Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee!

Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi. Against each one mountainside, accredit ability arena.
And when this happens, albeit we allow freedom to ring, although individually let it arena from every village and each one hamlet, against whole state and without exception city, our own selves will be able to speed up that day at all of God’s children, black men and white brother, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, attitude be adept to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, “free appearing in last! complimentary by antipodal! thank Allah Almighty, personally are comp found in closing!